Article #0

fileid: training/9058

U . S . CORN ACREAGE SEEN NEAR RECORD LOW U . S . corn acreage this year is likely to drop to the lowest level since the unsurpassed acreage reductions of the 1983 PIK year and could rank as one of the lowest corn plantings in the United States in sixty years , Agriculture Department officials said . 
Agriculture Department analysts said next week ' s figures will likely show a sharp drop in acreage to as low as 65 mln acres , down 22 pct from last year ' s plantings of 83 . 3 mln acres . 
If analysts ' unofficial estimates prove correct then the drop in u . s . corn acreage will be the largest since 1983 when farmers idled 22 mln acres in the Payment - In - Kind program . 
Given normal weather conditions this year , USDA analysts said the 1987 corn crop could end up around seven billion bushels , down from last year ' s crop of 8 . 3 billion bushels . 
Currently farmers enrolling in the program are required to set aside 20 pct of their base acreage and then are eligible for payments of two dlrs per bushel by idling an additional 15 pct of their acreage . 

U . S . CORN ACREAGE SEEN NEAR RECORD LOW U . S . corn acreage this year is likely to drop to the lowest level since the unsurpassed acreage reductions of the 1983 PIK year and could rank as one of the lowest corn plantings in the United States in sixty years , Agriculture Department officials said . 
Analysts said 1987 corn production could drop by over one billion bushels to around seven billion bushels . 
" It ' s difficult for any farmer to not go along with the program this year ." 
A severe drought that summer in major producing states caused yields to tumble and final crop production to total only 4 . 2 billion bushels . 
In contrast , soybean acreage is likely to be cut the most in marginal producing areas of the southeast and the western corn belt , a USDA soybean analyst said . 
Soybean production could drop fractionally from last year ' s 2 . 0 billion bushels to 1 . 8 to 1 . 9 billion , he said . 


Article #1

fileid: training/12407

GERMAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 3 . 2 PCT IN FEBRUARY West German industrial production , seasonally adjusted , rose a provisional 3 . 2 pct in February after a downwards revised decline of 3 . 4 pct in January , the Economics Ministry said . 
The February rise in production was aided by a sharp 19 pct increase in construction output compared with January , when production in many industrial sectors was depressed by unusually severe winter weather . 
The ministry , which considers two - monthly comparisons to be a better guide to trends , said output in January and February together fell around two pct against November and December . 
The ministry said construction output fell 13 - 1 / 2 pct in January / February against November / December due to the cold January weather . 
Manufacturing industry output fell one pct , with output of basic products down three pct , capital goods down one pct and food , tobacco and alcohol production 1 - 1 / 2 pct lower . 

GERMAN INDUSTRIAL OUTPUT RISES 3 . 2 PCT IN FEBRUARY West German industrial production , seasonally adjusted , rose a provisional 3 . 2 pct in February after a downwards revised decline of 3 . 4 pct in January , the Economics Ministry said . 
The ministry had originally estimated that industrial production fell 3 . 0 pct in January . 
The industrial production index , base 1980 , stood at a provisional 104 . 1 in February against 100 . 9 in January and 104 . 5 in December . 
Output in the energy sector rose four pct and mining output 10 pct . 
Manufacturing industry output fell one pct , with output of basic products down three pct , capital goods down one pct and food , tobacco and alcohol production 1 - 1 / 2 pct lower . 
In other industrial sectors , mining production fell four pct and construction output 4 - 1 / 2 pct . 


Article #2

fileid: training/922

CRA EXPECTS TO PAY FINAL DIVIDEND OF 10 CENTS CRA Ltd & lt ; CRAA . S > said it expected to pay a final 1986 dividend of not less than 10 cents a share after July 1 , making 13 cents forthe year against 15 in 1985 . 
The mining and smelting group earlier reported 1986 net earnings rose to 138 . 2 mln dlrs from 87 . 8 mln in 1985 , against analysts ' forecasts yesterday of 125 mln to160 mln . 
The company operates on a substituted tax year , not the fiscal year ending June 30 , and as a result has incurred tax at the 49 pct rate on 1986 earnings , CRA said in a statement . 
Consequently , it has funds available for distribution with dividend imputed but is waiting to see the imputation legislation before determining the final payout , it said . 
Despite the higher net earnings , CRA said 1986 was a poor year for the minerals industry , with the notable exception of gold producers . 
This cost 47 . 0 mln dlrs after tax , included in the net interest cost . 

CRA EXPECTS TO PAY FINAL DIVIDEND OF 10 CENTS CRA Ltd & lt ; CRAA . S > said it expected to pay a final 1986 dividend of not less than 10 cents a share after July 1 , making 13 cents forthe year against 15 in 1985 . 
The company operates on a substituted tax year , not the fiscal year ending June 30 , and as a result has incurred tax at the 49 pct rate on 1986 earnings , CRA said in a statement . 
Turning to contributions to its earnings , CRA said Bougainville Copper Ltd & lt ; BUVA . S > contributed 31 . 3 mln dlrs while its share of Comalco Ltd ' s & lt ; CMAC . S > net was 37 . 8 mln . 
Lead , zinc and silver mining and smelting operations incurred a net loss of 66 . 8 mln dlrs against a 38 . 1 mln loss in 1985 , CRA said . 
CRA said the main item in its 250 . 28 mln dlr extraordinary loss was a 172 . 9 mln writeoff of unrealised foreign exchange losses on borrowings as required by a new accounting standard . 


Article #3

fileid: training/5290

LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL Leading industrial nations will meet again next month to review their accord on currency stability , but U . S . Officials said financial markets are convinced for now the countries will live up to commitments to speed up economic growth . 
The official refused to comment , however , on whether the agreement included a secret pact to consider further coordinated interest rate cuts -- a measure industrial nations have taken jointly several times in the past year . 
The shake - up would strengthen the U . S . 
Position in future international talks . 
Currency analysts believe the Paris agreement set secret short - term target ranges for their currencies with a specific agreement to defend those bands with intervention . 
Signs of concern about German prospects emerged recently when Bundesbank ( central bank ) president Karl Otto Poehl told bankers he would consider cutting West German interest rates if the Fed was ready to follow suit . 

LEADING INDUSTRIAL NATIONS TO MEET IN APRIL Leading industrial nations will meet again next month to review their accord on currency stability , but U . S . Officials said financial markets are convinced for now the countries will live up to commitments to speed up economic growth . 
On February 22 , the United States , Japan , West Germany , France , Britain and Canada agreed that major currencies were within ranges broadly reflecting underlying economic conditions , given commitments by Washington to cut its budget deficit and by Toyko and Bonn to boost economic growth . 
Signs of concern about German prospects emerged recently when Bundesbank ( central bank ) president Karl Otto Poehl told bankers he would consider cutting West German interest rates if the Fed was ready to follow suit . 
Public comments by Fed officials suggest the central bank is keeping credit conditions broadly unchanged , but if the major economies continue to show sluggish growth and the U . S . Trade deficit remains stubbornly high , further coordinated action could be on the April agenda . 


Article #4

fileid: test/20764

TREASURY ' S BAKER UNDER FIRE FOR WALL STREET DROP As official Washington sought to restore investor confidence after Monday ' s Wall Street collapse , Treasury Secretary James Baker came under fire from critics who claimed he helped to precipitate the crisis . 
Baker ' s weekend blast at the West German Bundesbank for boosting interest rates seemed to signal an unraveling of an international accord to stabilize currency values . 
It was a dispute that should never have happened , he added . 
Said one U . S . analyst of Baker ' s weekend remarks , " His timing could not have been worse ." 
" On the surface Baker may look responsible for this , but if you go back to see what caused it ( unsettling of financial markets ), it was West German policy ," said Robert Brusca of Nikko Securities International in New York . 
For all of this , it seems unlikely that Baker ' s status in Washington will diminish because of the market fall . 

TREASURY ' S BAKER UNDER FIRE FOR WALL STREET DROP As official Washington sought to restore investor confidence after Monday ' s Wall Street collapse , Treasury Secretary James Baker came under fire from critics who claimed he helped to precipitate the crisis . 
Nigel Lawson , British Chancellor of the Exchequer , was among those who said the treasury secretary ' s statements helped spur a wave of stock sales by making already jittery investors think that a clash between the two major economic powers would damage the world economy . 
Treasury sources said that Baker , already unhappy about Bonn ' s refusal to stimulate its economy in order to keep the global recovery moving , was angered by a Bundesbank interest rate boost that seemed destined to do just the opposite . 
Asked by reporters if somebody ' s head should roll because of the Wall Street retreat , Texas Democratic Senator Lloyd Bentsen said with some irony , " Oh , I think it ' s much too late to be doing that ... You have an administration that ' s taken the attitude that we can put the country on automatic pilot and --- retire to the living room to take a nap . 
You just can ' t do that ." 


Article #5

fileid: test/15063

PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRY Cheap oil feedstocks , the weakened U . S . dollar and a plant utilization rate approaching 90 pct will propel the streamlined U . S . petrochemical industry to record profits this year , with growth expected through at least 1990 , major company executives predicted . 
This bullish outlook for chemical manufacturing and an industrywide move to shed unrelated businesses has prompted GAF Corp & lt ; GAF >, privately - held Cain Chemical Inc , and other firms to aggressively seek acquisitions of petrochemical plants . 
But some experts worry that the chemical industry may be headed for trouble if companies continue turning their back on the manufacturing of staple petrochemical commodities , such as ethylene , in favor of more profitable specialty chemicals that are custom - designed for a small group of buyers . 
Chairman Gordon Cain , who previously led a leveraged buyout of Dupont ' s Conoco Inc ' s chemical business , has spent 1 . 1 billion dlrs since January to buy seven petrochemical plants along the Texas Gulf Coast . 
Garo Armen , an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds , said chemical makers have also benefitted by increasing demand for plastics as prices become more competitive with aluminum , wood and steel products . 

ENERGY / U . S . 
PETROCHEMICAL INDUSTRY Cheap oil feedstocks , the weakened U . S . dollar and a plant utilization rate approaching 90 pct will propel the streamlined U . S . petrochemical industry to record profits this year , with growth expected through at least 1990 , major company executives predicted . 
Last year , the domestic industry earned a total of 13 billion dlrs , a 54 pct leap from 1985 . 
" Companies like DuPont & lt ; DD > and Monsanto Co & lt ; MTC > spent the past two or three years trying to get out of the commodity chemical business in reaction to how badly the market had deteriorated ," Dosher said . 
" But I think they will eventually kill the margins on the profitable chemicals in the niche market ." 
Chairman Gordon Cain , who previously led a leveraged buyout of Dupont ' s Conoco Inc ' s chemical business , has spent 1 . 1 billion dlrs since January to buy seven petrochemical plants along the Texas Gulf Coast . 


Article #6

fileid: training/13046

CONABLE WARNS PROTECTIONISM MIGHT SPREAD World Bank President Barber Conable expressed concern that trade protectionism , at the heart of a new showdown between the United States and Japan , might spread throughout the industrial world . 
Conable said the World Bank has been pressing developing countries to open their markets , arguing that a free trading environment increased the possibility of global economic growth . 
On a personal level , Conable said that he not feel a need to put his personal stamp on the Bank noting that " I don ' t have a particular mission here except to be useful to the institution and to the process of development ." 
On the development needs of sub - Sahara Africa , Conable said that the Bank was constantly reviewing new ways for assisting the region , noting that half of the recently agreed financing of 12 . 4 billion dlrs for Bank ' s International Development Association was earmarked for Africa . 
Leading industrial nations are expected to consider new forms of debt relief for the very poorest nations , like those in the Sub - Sahara , during next week ' s meetings . 

CONABLE WARNS PROTECTIONISM MIGHT SPREAD World Bank President Barber Conable expressed concern that trade protectionism , at the heart of a new showdown between the United States and Japan , might spread throughout the industrial world . 
" We have , in fact , been making adjustment loans to many countries in the developing world which have encouraged the opening of their markets and we want to be sure that the developed world doesn ' t close at the same time ," he said . 
Conable also said that he expected the result of a major study of the Bank ' s organization to be completed in the next several weeks . 
However , he said " I don ' t believe there is anything basically wrong with this institution and I don ' t believe it has to have any redefinition of its purpose ." 
He said , however , that it was apparent that the debt initiative proposed by Baker has given the Bank a central role in dealing with the debt crisis . 
He added , " so I don ' t feel a great calling to personalize the institution ." 


Article #7

fileid: training/12878

WESSANEN FORESEES STRONG PROFIT GROWTH Dutch dairy and general foods manufacturer Koninklijke Wessanen NV & lt ; WESS . AS >, said it is planning further world - wide acquisitions and forsees strong profit growth over the next 10 years . 
Company chairman Gerrit van Driel told journalists at the presentation of Wessanen ' s 1986 report he already expected 1987 first quarter profits to show an increase . 
Van Driel said profits would have been nine mln guilders higher if the US currency had remained at its average 1985 level of 3 . 20 guilders . 
The company ' s 1986 US turnover of about 750 mln dlrs made a listing on one of the New York exchanges a logical next step , van Driel said without elaborating . 
Despite EC dairy restrictions Wessanen , which produces around 10 pct of all Dutch cheese , saw good growth prospects for its dairy sector within Europe , van Driel said . 

WESSANEN FORESEES STRONG PROFIT GROWTH Dutch dairy and general foods manufacturer Koninklijke Wessanen NV & lt ; WESS . AS >, said it is planning further world - wide acquisitions and forsees strong profit growth over the next 10 years . 
This was achieved despite a 25 pct drop in the dollar ' s guilder value , van Driel said . 
Wessanen now has 15 separate businesses in the US out of a total of 62 world - wide . 
All sectors saw strong growth in 1986 , resulting in a 13 pct increase in operating income to 120 mln guilders . 
Van Driel stressed that while these listings would not be accompanied by new share issues , they provided easy vehicles for the company to raise capital for future expansion . 
Despite EC dairy restrictions Wessanen , which produces around 10 pct of all Dutch cheese , saw good growth prospects for its dairy sector within Europe , van Driel said . 


Article #8

fileid: training/6156

ANALYSTS SAY U . K . BUDGET POINTS TO BASE RATE CUTS Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson ' s Budget speech was described as sound and well balanced by analysts , if slightly lacking in excitement . 
The target for the narrow measure of money supply , M0 , was kept unchangd at two to six pct , while the target for the broad Sterling M3 aggregate was dropped . 
Both Jeffrey and Fellner said the budget clears the way for a half - point fall in U . K . Base rates tomorrow , but the authorities are unlikely to sanction a larger cut immediately . 
The main worry from today ' s speech is the outlook for inflation , given the signs of relaxed monetary policy contained in it , Scrimgeour Vickers economist Richard Holt said . 
Raising the forecast for the current account deficit from 1 . 5 to 2 . 5 billion stg for 1987 would not unsettle the markets , which are already discounting that amount , Jeffrey said . 
Nevertheless , he said , it was likely to result in a boost to the Conservative Party ' s pre - election popularity . 

ANALYSTS SAY U . K . BUDGET POINTS TO BASE RATE CUTS Chancellor of the Exchequer Nigel Lawson ' s Budget speech was described as sound and well balanced by analysts , if slightly lacking in excitement . 
Both Jeffrey and Fellner said the budget clears the way for a half - point fall in U . K . Base rates tomorrow , but the authorities are unlikely to sanction a larger cut immediately . 
The Budget will inspire a lot of short - term confidence but it was " not a good budget for inflation ," he said Jeffrey said he would have liked Lawson to say more about the dangers of excessive liquidity build - up but overall was not too concerned about a revival of inflation . 
James Capel ' s Fellner noted that by being fiscally prudent , Lawson had kept open the possibility of an autumn election in that there would be no " chickens coming home to roost ." 
Richard Jeffrey , who favours the likelihood of a June election , said it was important the Chancellor had not gone for a Budget aimed overtly at buying an election victory . 


Article #9

fileid: training/9110

MERGERS , PUBLIC OFFERS SEEN AMONG CAR DEALERS Automobile dealerships have become large , multi - store operations , and the largest sell more than 1 billion dlrs a year worth of vehicles a year . 
" I had one of these guys tell me he makes six , seven mln dlrs a year and didn ' t know what to do with all his money ," says Cole . 
Donald Keithley , vice president , dealer services , for J . D . 
Many dealers are experimenting with owning several franchises , some of which might compete against each other . 
The only thing the manufacturer cares about is that the dealer sells those cars . 
" If you look at the whole merger mania , and look at the scale some of these dealers , it ' s going to be very hard to resist taking them public ," said another analyst . 

MERGERS , PUBLIC OFFERS SEEN AMONG CAR DEALERS Automobile dealerships have become large , multi - store operations , and the largest sell more than 1 billion dlrs a year worth of vehicles a year . 
The retail car market is " much more freeform now " than it was in 1956 , the year things began to change , says Detroit analyst Arvid Jauppi of Arvid Jauppi and Associates . 
The " Bug " caused " a rebellion " among dealers , who demanded greater freedom from restrictions placed on them by the major American automakers , says Jauppi . 
Now a Chevrolet dealer might handle several lines ," Jauppi says . 
Although some say the franchise system might get in the way of a public offering , Jauppi says there are few obstacles to trading in car dealer shares . 


